flow.md, before:

# Flow: Living at the Peak of Your Abilities - Mihály Csíkszentmihályi
Flow is described as the state where someone losses itself in the task and even time doesn't matter anymore.
Csíkszentmihályi defines found in several case studies that there are eight elements needed to reach a state of flow.  
1. Clarity of goals and immediate feedback:

the task must be explicitly clear and you need to get feedback as fast as possible. To translate this into the world of software development. The story must be cristal clear and properly discussed with your PO. You must be able to test your code immediatly - either via tests that were developed before - or if you are in the frontend by checking your visuals. But whatever you develop it must be a matter of seconds to test and execute your code to get feedback.

2. A high level of concentration on a limited field:

You need to concentrate on a problem and on one problem alone. If you try to hit a target with bow and arrow, you will be able to do it when you focus on your target and nothing else. Pretty much the same is true for development. If you get lost in formatting and fiddeling around in other parts of the profect - it will get very tricky to finish your task.

3. Balance between skills and challenge:

Your skillset and the task must be match with each other. You know how frustrating it is to learn a new tech/language - even the easiest things take ages. On the other hand if you are an experienced dev and you only get boring and repitive tasks - like linting or other stuff that should be automated! - you will get bored.

4. The feeling of control

I guess most of us know this awesome feeling when you have setted up your project in a way - with all the boilerplate that is needed to handle models, fetch data, etc - and then finally have all tools at hand that allow you to reach your goal by composing everything together. Another good example is protecting yourself with tests - so you never need to worry to you broke something else. By doing this you can reach a state of security and relaxation without any worry.



5. Effortlessness

Commit message:

create own files per book

flow.md, after:

# Flow: Living at the Peak of Your Abilities - Mihály Csíkszentmihályi
Flow is described as the state where someone losses itself in the task and even time doesn't matter anymore.
Csíkszentmihályi defines found in several case studies that there are eight elements needed to reach a state of flow.  
1. Clarity of goals and immediate feedback:

the task must be explicitly clear and you need to get feedback as fast as possible. To translate this into the world of software development. The story must be cristal clear and properly discussed with your PO. You must be able to test your code immediatly - either via tests that were developed before - or if you are in the frontend by checking your visuals. But whatever you develop it must be a matter of seconds to test and execute your code to get feedback.

2. A high level of concentration on a limited field:

You need to concentrate on a problem and on one problem alone. If you try to hit a target with bow and arrow, you will be able to do it when you focus on your target and nothing else. Pretty much the same is true for development. If you get lost in formatting and fiddeling around in other parts of the profect - it will get very tricky to finish your task.

3. Balance between skills and challenge:

Your skillset and the task must be match with each other. You know how frustrating it is to learn a new tech/language - even the easiest things take ages. On the other hand if you are an experienced dev and you only get boring and repitive tasks - like linting or other stuff that should be automated! - you will get bored.

4. The feeling of control

I guess most of us know this awesome feeling when you have setted up your project in a way - with all the boilerplate that is needed to handle models, fetch data, etc - and then finally have all tools at hand that allow you to reach your goal by composing everything together. Another good example is protecting yourself with tests - so you never need to worry to you broke something else. By doing this you can reach a state of security and relaxation without any worry.

5. Effortlessness:

Developing runs smoothly and you always know which is the next step. From the outside it may look strenuous, yet in fact if the developer is in flow she does not experience any feel of strain. The activity is guided by an inner logic and for the dev it should feel that it has to go that way. 
You can support this by providing rules that goes true for every story, like first you need to branch and create a PR, then you need to cover you ass with tests. Make sure that you have a flawless and easy CI build process, to make it explicitly clear how the process works.

6. An altered perception of time:

Time feel condensed, two hours feel like ten minutes or expanded - ten seconds or stretched into minutes.

7. The melting together of action and consciousness

Developers do not feel separated from their actions - they are one with their performance. This unity can be expanded to whole team (team flow). I have experienced this in pair programming - which is extremly strainful in the beginning. But after a while it becomes natural to work together and your partner and you will work as a union which means less errors and faster development with more joy.

8. The autotelic quality of flow-experiences: IROI

From Greek autos – self and telos – goal. Not only achieving the goal of an activity is rewarding but the activity in itself is fulfilling. Flow is therefore “Immediate Return on Investment”.

Developing or building software must be rewarding in itself. You always should have the feeling of generating value - or at least not break someone elses code :-)
